Having a murder mystery plot lent the game to being freeform because we left a lot up to the player. Each clue was open to interpretation and that's what presented the challenge. Also, as a detective the player should have access to any room they choose to go to. In some adventure games, it makes sense that some rooms aren't available but here the detective is given free rein to explore this space. This is why we had the rooms as a hashtable that the player could gain access to at any time. It also made sense for us to have 'appliances' in each room instead of various items with their associated clues. For example, a note would realistically be on a table rather than just sitting on the floor. That's why we added the other element of the appliance class.

We could have instead had more of a description for each room when the player enters so that they could directly to an item with a description (e.g a note). But, it made it more realistic for the player to have to go over to the table or the drawer to see those items in the first place. And with the player looking around more it presents more of a challenge/interactive aspect, arguably, making our game more engaging. 
That said, having the gameplay be open-ended did make difficult for some players. As alternate design that we could implement we could have a notebook class where clues could be stored. Like when the player sees the ring the detective could jot down in their notebook that they think there's relationship between the dean and the nurse. With that clue it could prompt them to look more closely at the dean's items which would lead them to clue number 2. In doing so, we would build a sequence of clues where the player could figure out the backstory to better guess the murderer. Since this is similar to the idea behind the backpack we could build off of the functionality. However, a limitation with this alternate design is that the GUI is limited in terms of how much text it can display therefore we could not print out many clues at a time. 